---
layout: post
published: true
---



Introduction
============

 

  <!-- Inserting Vertical Space -->

 

\begin{quote}
Money is a veil, but when the veil flutters, real output sputters.
(Lucas 1972, pp. 121-22)
\end{quote}
\begin{quote}
The current economic crisis has called into question the role of monetary
policy, particularly inflation targeting and its oversight of asset
bubbles and supply side shocks. This column is an obituary to inflation
targeting and call for nominal GDP targeting to replace it. 
(Jeffrey Frankel 19 June 2012)
\end{quote}
Inflation Targeting ?
=====================

-   No long run trade-off between Inflation and output. Very Few studies to explore King and Watson (1994), Luca Benati (2013)

-   It's “divine coincidence”, Blanchard and Galí (2007). In other words the Phillips curve tells you that if you have zero inflation, you can be at a zero output gap, and everything is beautiful. See Maurice Obstfeld (2014) for more details in open Economy Setup

-   New Keynesian Phillips Curve (NKPC) implies a forward looking behaviour so Central Bank can anchor inflation expectation towards target inflation. See Gali(2007, 2008)

Inflation Targeting in India??
==============================

-   We are in the process of adopting Inflation Targeting Framework.
-   Urjit Patel Committee accepts that there is no of long term trade off between inflation output. (Evidence from India is missing)
-   We also accept the NKPC (New Keynesian Phillips Curve) framework but almost no evidence that how much forward looking inflation is? Rudrani Bhattacharya & Ila Patnaik (2014), Bhupal Singh(2010)
-   Disitinction between Supply side and demand side inflation is not so well understood in India.
-   Exchange rate is an important variable and policy makers must debate the appropriate role of the exchange rate and whether it should be subordinated to the inflation objective (See Sarwat Jahan 2012 for more details).

Plan of the Paper
=================

-   Impact of Monetary policy on Inflation has been studied in the standard structural Vector Autoregression (henceforth SVAR) framework with the assumption is that demand and supply shocks are not correlated. See Al-Mashat (2003), Aleem (2010), Khundrakpam & Jain (2012).
-   Using a simple Model based on Svensson (1997) one can show that Inflation targeting leads to correlated demand and supply shocks.
-   I will estimate SVAR models with correlated shocks to identify the contribution of demand and supply shocks in Inflation. I will augumemt the model with foreign GDP and Commodity prices one by one to identify the contribution of foreign supply shock and commodity price shock in Inflation.

Plan of the Paper
=================

-   The above models will not have a monetary policy reaction function.
-   Finally I will estimate a canonical New keynesian Model using FIML to answer few crucial questions about the Inflation targeting in India.
-   We can answer questions like effect of monetary policy on Inflation, inflation output trade-off and also see whether Inflation is actually forward looking

Correlated Demand & Supply Shocks
=================================

We write a Backward Looking Philips Curve, See Jeremy Rudda and Karl Whelan, (2005) and a simple output equation, the model is somewhat similar to Svensson (1997)

\(\pi_{t}=\alpha_{1}\pi_{t-1}+\alpha_{2}y_{t-1}+\mu_{t}\hspace{1em}\alpha_{1}>0\hspace{1em}\alpha_{2}>0\)

\(y_{t}=\beta_{1}y_{t-1}+\beta_{2}i_{t}+\eta_{t}\hspace{1em}\beta_{1}>0\hspace{1em}\beta_{2}<0\)

\(\pi_{t+1}=\alpha_{1}\pi_{t}+\alpha_{2}y_{t}+\mu_{t+1}\)

\(\pi_{t+1}=\alpha_{1}[\alpha_{1}\pi_{t-1}+\alpha_{2}y_{t-1}+\mu_{t}]+\alpha_{2}[\beta_{1}y_{t-1}+\beta_{2}i_{t}+\eta_{t}]+\mu_{t+1}\)

\(\pi_{t+1}=\theta_{1}\pi_{t-1}+\theta_{2}y_{t-1}+\theta_{3}i_{t}+\alpha_{1}\mu_{t}+\alpha_{2}\eta_{t}+\mu_{t+1}\)

Where

\(\theta_{1}=\alpha_{1}^{2}\hspace{1em}\theta_{2}=\alpha_{1}\alpha_{2}+\alpha_{2}\beta_{1}\hspace{1em}\theta_{3}=\alpha_{2}\beta_{2}\)

Correlated Demand & Supply Shocksl
==================================

Now suppose that our central bank is minimizing the loss function given below

\(E_{t}\sum_{t=t}^{t=\infty}\lambda^{t-t}L(\pi_{t})\)

Where \(L(\pi_{t})=\frac{1}{2}(\pi_{t}-\pi^{*})^{2}\) basically implies that Central Bank minimizes the variance of inflation.

\(E_{t}\lambda L(\pi_{t_{+1}})\)

One can check the first order condition for the optimization and it's not very hard to figure intuitively that \(\pi_{t+1/t}=\pi^{*}\). One can read the above condtion as Central Bank should set policy rate in a manner that makes one year ahead forecast of inflation equals to the target inflation. Svensson (1997) argues in details as why this forecast is important.

Correlated Demand & Supply Shocks
=================================

One period ahead forecast of the inflation is given by \(\pi_{t+1/t}=\theta_{1}\pi_{t-1}+\theta_{2}y_{t-1}+\theta_{3}i_{t}+\alpha_{1}\mu_{t}+\alpha_{2}\eta_{t}\)

One can obtain the Central Bank Reaction function by equating the above equation with the first order condition and for simplicity we assume that \(\pi^{*}=0\)

This gives us

\(i_{t}=\varphi_{1}\pi_{t-1}+\varphi_{2}y_{t-1}+\varphi_{3}\mu_{t}+\varphi_{4}\eta_{t}\)

Where one can obviously write \(\varphi_{i}\) in terms of original coefficients.

Structural Vector Autoregression (SVAR)
=======================================

\(\beta_{11}y_{1t}+\beta_{12}y_{2t}=\alpha_{11}y_{1t-1}+\alpha_{12}y_{2t-1}+\epsilon_{1t}\)

\(\beta_{21}y_{1t}+\beta_{22}y_{2t}=\alpha_{21}y_{1t-1}+\alpha_{21}y_{2t-1}+\epsilon_{1t}\)

\(\beta y_{t}=\varGamma_{1}y_{t-1}+\epsilon_{t}\)

\(\beta=\left[\begin{array}{cc} \beta_{11} & \beta_{12}\\ \beta_{21} & \beta_{22} \end{array}\right]\) \(\varGamma=\left[\begin{array}{cc} \alpha_{11} & \alpha_{12}\\ \alpha_{21} & \alpha_{22} \end{array}\right]\)

\(\epsilon_{t}=\left[\begin{array}{c} \epsilon_{1t}\\ \epsilon_{2t} \end{array}\right]\)\(y_{t}=\left[\begin{array}{c} y_{1t}\\ y_{2t} \end{array}\right]\) \(y_{t-1}=\left[\begin{array}{c} y_{1t-1}\\ y_{2t-1} \end{array}\right]\)

Multiplying the structural form by \(\beta^{-1}\) gives us the reduced form VAR (We can call it VAR)

\(y_{t}=\varPi y_{t-1}+\mu_{t}\) Where \(u_{t}=\beta^{-1}\epsilon_{t}\) and \(\varPi=\beta^{-1}\varGamma_{1}\)

The reduced form VAR is usual SUR structre but since the explanatory variables are same, OLS estimation gives efficient estimate. (Remember OLS is consistent)

Structural Vector Autoregression
================================

The SVAR differs from Simultaneous equation.

\(E(u_{t}\mu_{t}')=E(\beta^{-1}\epsilon_{t}\epsilon_{t}^{'}\beta^{-1^{'}})\)

Usual SVAR assumes \(E(\epsilon_{t}\epsilon_{t}^{'})=I_{k}\) and putting \(\beta^{-1}=S\) gives us

\(E(u_{t}\mu_{t}')=SS'\) \(\mu_{t}=S\epsilon_{t}\)

Remember that \(E(u_{t}\mu_{t}')\) has \(K\times(K-1)\) free parametres and thus we need to put sufficient restrictions on \(S\) to identify S. This is usual order condition due to Rothenberg (1971).

In this pape we are going to deal with a general class of problem, where \(E(\epsilon_{t}\epsilon_{t}^{'})\neq I_{k}\). We are going to solve for

\(E(u_{t}\mu_{t}')=S\Omega S'\) Where \(E(\epsilon_{t}\epsilon_{t}^{'})=\Omega\).

Interested readers can See Hausman (1983), Identification with Covariance Restrictions

Demand & Supply Shock
=====================

We set up a simple model based on Covers et.al. (2003) of aggregate supply and aggreagte demand as give below. Our aggreagte supply curve is forward looking Lucas supply curve \[
y_{t}^{s}=_{t-1}y_{t}+\alpha(p_{t}-_{t-1}p_{t})+\epsilon_{t}\hspace{1em}\alpha>0
\] \[
(y_{t}+p_{t})^{d}=_{t-1}(y_{t}+p_{t})^{d}+\eta_{t}
\] \[
y_{t}^{s}=y_{t}^{d}
\] One can solve from here to obtain \[
\left[\begin{array}{c}
y_{t}\\
p_{t}
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{c}
_{t-1}y_{t}\\
_{t-1}p_{t}
\end{array}\right]+\left[\begin{array}{cc}
\frac{1}{1+\alpha} & \frac{\alpha}{1+\alpha}\\
\frac{-1}{1+\alpha} & \frac{1}{1+\alpha}
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{c}
\epsilon_{t}\\
\eta_{t}
\end{array}\right]
\] finally if we assume that \(_{t-1}y_{t}\) and \(_{t-1}p_{t}\) are linear combinations of their past values then the above structural equation can be written in reduced form VAR.

Demand & Supply Shock
=====================

\(S\) given by \(\left[\begin{array}{cc} \frac{1}{1+\alpha} & \frac{\alpha}{1+\alpha}\\ \frac{-1}{1+\alpha} & \frac{1}{1+\alpha} \end{array}\right]\). Now we are not going to impose \(E(\mu_{t}\mu_{t}^{'})=I_{k}\) and so we will solve for \[
\sum_{\epsilon}=\beta^{-1}\Omega \beta^{-1'}=S\Omega S'
\] One can see that free parametres in the right hand side is 4 as S has only one free parametre. But the left hand side has only three parametre and thus we need one restriction. We will impose one long run restriction in the tradition of Blanchard and Quah (1989) to identify the model. Identification Conditions with Long Run Restrictions is a bit complex and very recently we have understood it properly. See Ram´irez et.al. (2009)

Demand, Supply Shock & External Shock
=====================================

The model of Covers et.al.(2003) can be extended to include one more variable like foreign output or commodity prices and the revised model can bw written as \[
y_{t}^{f}=_{t-1}y^{f}+\nu_{t}
\] \[
y_{t}^{s}=_{t-1}y_{t}+\alpha(p_{t}-_{t-1}p_{t})+\epsilon_{t}+\gamma\nu_{t}\hspace{1em}\alpha>0
\] \[
(y_{t}+p_{t})^{d}=_{t-1}(y_{t}+p_{t})^{d}+\eta_{t}
\] \[
y_{t}^{s}=y_{t}^{d}
\] The model can be simplified as \[
\left[\begin{array}{c}
y_{t}^{f}\\
y_{t}\\
p_{t}
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{c}
_{t-1}y_{t}^{f}\\
_{t-1}y_{t}\\
_{t-1}p_{t}
\end{array}\right]+\left[\begin{array}{ccc}
1 & 0 & 0\\
\frac{\gamma}{1+\alpha} & \frac{1}{1+\alpha} & \frac{\alpha}{1+\alpha}\\
\frac{-\gamma}{1+\alpha} & \frac{-1}{1+\alpha} & \frac{1}{1+\alpha}
\end{array}\right]+\left[\begin{array}{c}
\nu_{t}\\
\epsilon_{t}\\
\eta_{t}
\end{array}\right]
\]

Demand, Supply Shock & External Shock
=====================================

Again we will solve for \(\sum_{\epsilon}=B_{0}^{-1}\sum_{\mu}B_{0}^{-1'}=S\sum_{\mu}S'\) and once can see that there are six free parametres in the left handside. There are eight free parametres in the right hand side again we will put one covariance between price and foreign output is zero and another long run restriction that prices don't have long run effects on output Blanchard and Quah (1989).

The benefit of this extended model is that it will help us in explaining the inflation via external shock, wheteher it's external supply shock or external commondity price shock.

The New Keynesian Model
=======================

We set up a new keynesian Model, Clarida et al., (1999)

Aggregate Demand Specification Given by McCallum and Nelson, (1999) and McCallum and Nelson, (2000)

\(x_{t}=\alpha_{0}+E_{t}x_{t+1}-\alpha_{1}(i_{t}-E_{t}\pi_{t+1})+\epsilon_{t}^{x}\)

The New Keynesian Phillips curve derived from Calvo's (1983)

\(\pi_{t}=\beta_{o}+\beta_{1}E_{t}\pi_{t+1}+\beta_{2}x_{t}+\epsilon_{t}^{\pi}\)

We close the model with forward looking monetary policy rule See Clarida et al., 1998, Clarida et al., 1999 and Clarida et al., (2000)

\(i_{t}=\gamma_{1}+\pi_{t}+\gamma_{1}(E_{t}\pi_{t+1}-\pi*)+\gamma_{2}x_{t}+\epsilon_{t}^{i}\)

The New Keynesian Model
=======================

The identification scheme is based on converting the contemporaneous structural system into an innovations representation that consists of structural disturbances and VAR innovations, by subtracting from each variable the expectation at time t 1 of that variable conditioned on all available past information:

\begin{eqnarray*}
\epsilon_{t}^{x} & = & (x_{t}-E_{t-1}x_{t})-(E_{t}x_{t+1}-E_{t-1}x_{t+1})+\alpha_{1}(i_{t}-E_{t-1}i_{t})\\
 &  & -\alpha_{1}(E_{t}\pi_{t+1}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t+1})
\end{eqnarray*}
\[
\epsilon_{t}^{x}=\mu_{t}^{x}-(E_{t}x_{t+1}-E_{t-1}x_{t+1})+\alpha_{1}\mu_{t}^{i}+\alpha_{1}(E_{t}\pi_{t+1}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t+1})
\]

The New Keynesian Model
=======================

\begin{eqnarray*}
\epsilon_{t}^{\pi} & = & (\pi_{t}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t})-\beta_{1}(E_{t}\pi_{t+1}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t+1}))\\
 &  & -\beta_{2}(x_{t}-E_{t-1}x_{t})
\end{eqnarray*}
\[
\epsilon_{t}^{\pi}=\mu_{t}^{\pi}-\beta_{1}(E_{t}\pi_{t+1}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t+1})-\beta_{2}\mu_{t}^{x}
\]
\begin{eqnarray*}
\epsilon_{t}^{i} & = & (i_{t}-E_{t-1}i_{t})-(\pi_{t}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t})-\gamma_{1}(E_{t}\pi_{t+1}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t+1})\\
 &  & -\gamma_{2}(x_{t}-E_{t-1}x_{t})
\end{eqnarray*}
\[
\epsilon_{t}^{i}=\mu_{t}^{\pi}-\gamma_{1}(E_{t}\pi_{t+1}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t+1})-\gamma_{2}\mu_{t}^{x}
\]

Where \((x_{t}-E_{t-1}x_{t})\), \((\pi_{t}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t})\) and \((i_{t}-E_{t-1}i_{t})\) represents current level of output gap, inflation and interest rate innovations.

The New Keynesian Model
=======================

There are two additional terms \((E_{t}x_{t+1}-E_{t-1}x_{t+1})\) and \((E_{t}\pi_{t+1}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t+1})\) that represent the expectation revision process and have to be calculated using the forecast from the reduced form VAR. For this we write VAR in the stacked form

\(\left[\begin{array}{c} y_{t}\\ y_{t-1}\\ \\ y_{t-p+1} \end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{cccc} \varPi_{1} & \varPi_{2} & & \varPi_{p}\\ I_{n} & 0_{n} & 0_{n} & 0_{n}\\ \\ 0_{n} & 0_{n} & 0_{n} & 0_{n} \end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{c} y_{t}\\ y_{t-1}\\ \\ y_{t-p} \end{array}\right]+\left[\begin{array}{c} I_{n}\\ 0\\ \\ 0 \end{array}\right]\mu_{t}\)

This can be representated as the reduced form VAR we discussed above

\(y_{t}=\varPi y_{t-1}+Q\mu_{t}\)

The \(j\) step unconditional forecast is given by

\(E_{t}y_{t+j}=\varPi^{j}y_{t}\)

Finally The New Keynesian Model
===============================

Two row vectors of length \(np\) are created to locate the forecasted variables:

\(r_{x}=(1,0,0.....,0)\)

\(r_{\pi}=(1,0,0.....,0)\)

\(E_{t}x_{t+1}=r_{x}\varPi y_{t}\)

\(E_{t}\pi_{t+1}=r_{\pi}\varPi y_{t}\)

Now we get

\((E_{t}x_{t+1}-E_{t-1}x_{t+1})=r_{x}\varPi y_{t}-E_{t-1}x_{t+1}=r_{x}\varPi(y_{t}-E_{t-1}y_{t})=r_{x}\varPi Q\mu_{t}\)

\(E_{t}\pi_{t+1}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t+1})=r_{\pi}\varPi y_{t}-E_{t-1}\pi_{t+1}=r_{\pi}\varPi(y_{t}-E_{t-1}y_{t})=r_{\pi}\varPi Q\mu_{t}\)

The New Keynesian Model
=======================

Once we get this we can write

\(\epsilon_{t}^{x}=\mu_{t}^{x}-r_{x}\varPi Q\mu_{t}+\alpha_{1}\mu_{t}^{i}+\alpha_{1}r_{\pi}\varPi Q\mu_{t}\)

\(\epsilon_{t}^{\pi}=\mu_{t}^{\pi}-\beta_{1}r_{\pi}\varPi Q\mu_{t}-\beta_{2}\mu_{t}^{x}\)

\(\epsilon_{t}^{i}=\mu_{t}^{i}-\mu_{t}^{\pi}-\gamma_{1}r_{\pi}\varPi Q\mu_{t}-\gamma_{2}\mu_{t}^{x}\)

You would have noticed what we have achieved. Actually we wrote structural innovation as a funcation of reduced form innovation, just opposite of what we do in usual form. If you remember our earlier discussion you will see that we have \(\beta^{-1}=S\). In usual way we put restrictions on \(S\) now we are going to put restrictions on \(\beta\).

Finally
=======

The estimation will be done in following steps

First we will estimate the reduced form VAR. And we will calculate \(\varPi_{i}\) and reduced form residuals. From there we will obtain the covariance matrix of the reduced form residuals call it \(D\) and VAR in stacked form.

if you remember \(u_{t}=\beta^{-1}\epsilon_{t}\) that we can write as \(\beta\mu_{t}=\epsilon_{t}\) and we use above relation to put restrictions on \(\beta.\) \(E(u_{t}\mu_{t}')=E(\beta^{-1}\epsilon_{t}\epsilon_{t}^{'}\beta^{-1^{'}})=D=\beta^{-1}\Omega\beta^{-1^{'}}\). Using the above relation we maximize the the below written log likelihood to obtain the structural parmaetres

\(L=\sum_{t=1}^{n}\left[-\frac{n}{2}ln(2\pi)-\frac{1}{2}ln|\beta^{-1}\Omega\beta^{-1^{'}}|-\frac{1}{2}\epsilon_{t}^{'}\Omega^{-1}\epsilon_{t}\right]\)
